AIA Internal Technology Group
AKP Platform Technical Specification
Version: 1.0
Owner: Engineering Department

1. Overview

AKP Platform is an internal knowledge processing and question answering platform. It supports document ingestion, text chunking, embedding generation, vector search, retrieval-augmented generation, structured logging, and operations reporting.

The platform is designed for internal employee support, compliance knowledge access, and engineering document search.

2. API Design

The AKP Platform exposes RESTful APIs through the backend service.

The health check endpoint is GET /health. It returns the current service status.

The chat endpoint is POST /chat. It accepts a user question and an optional session ID. It returns an answer, refusal status, refusal reason, source chunks, and latency.

Example request:

{
  "question": "What is the annual leave policy?",
  "session_id": "demo-session-001"
}

Example response:

{
  "answer": "Based on the retrieved internal knowledge...",
  "refused": false,
  "refusal_reason": null,
  "sources": [],
  "latency_ms": 120
}

3. Authentication

The MVP version does not enforce user authentication. In production, the service should integrate with the company identity provider and validate user access before answering questions.

Future authentication should support single sign-on, service-to-service tokens, and role-based access control.

4. Request Tracing

Each chat request must generate a unique request_id. The request_id must be included in structured logs and can be used to trace retrieval, generation, refusal, latency, and errors.

The system should also support session_id for multi-turn conversation tracking.

5. Retrieval

The MVP retrieval mode is vector-only search. Documents are converted into chunks, and each chunk is embedded into a vector representation.

The retriever receives a user question, creates a query embedding, searches the Chroma vector store, and returns the top-k most relevant chunks.

The system should support configurable retrieval modes in future versions, including vector-only, hybrid search, and hybrid search with reranking.

6. Error Handling

The API should return a clear error message when required inputs are missing, the vector store is unavailable, or the retrieval pipeline fails.

For low-confidence retrieval or out-of-scope questions, the service should return a refusal response instead of generating unsupported content.

7. Rate Limiting

The MVP version does not implement rate limiting. Future versions should limit requests by user, session, or API client to prevent abuse and protect model cost.

8. Data Model

A document chunk contains chunk_id, text, source file name, source path, and chunk index.

A chat log contains request_id, session_id, redacted query, retrieval mode, reranker flag, retrieved chunk IDs, latency metrics, cache hit flag, refusal status, and refusal reason.

9. Configuration

The service must use configuration files instead of hard-coded values. Important configurable fields include model name, embedding model, retrieval mode, top_k, distance threshold, reranker flag, vector store path, and logging path.
